Al jazer has obtained footage showing
Israeli forces in Gaza shooting two
unarmed Palestinians dead at close range
one of the men repeatedly waves what
appears to be a piece of white fabric to
show they're not a threat this is an
international symbol of surrender the
bodies of the two Palestinians are then
buried by an Israeli bulldozer T Abu AUM
has more from Rafa in southern
Gaza completely disturbing and
distressing images that the video that
the jazer has obtained shows how two
unarmed Palestinians have been killed by
the Israeli forces they have been
completely disarmed they did not impose
any significant threat on the Israeli
forces as they were as they were
completely aw with a distance from the
Israeli forces who were taking a cover
behind sand piles and that's absolutely
terrifying as those Palestinians have
been killed and we completely see how
Israeli armored bulldozers have been
buried them on the coastal uh line of
the uh besieged enclave and from the
video that has been obtained it's
absolutely clear that the location where
those two Palestinians have been killed
and shot by Israeli forces was
completely uh next to the recent peer
that had been established by the world
Central Kitchen in order to facilitate
eight uh process a delivering process to
the Gaza trip on the uh in Gaza City and
that incident wasn't absolutely the
first from its kind within the past few
weeks we have been multiply seeing how
the Israeli forces have been carrying
out field executions against number of
Palestinians in the Norther part of Gaza
where their dead bodies have been
remained alone and laying on the roads
and sometimes being biled up uh uh with
different kinds of garbage as what have
been happening in another part of gazan
B lahia town where the majority of those
dead bodies have been decomposed without
being rescued and that's absolutely
terrifying it it's completely a new
preach of the humanitarian of the
international humanitarian LW that those
Palestinians were completely unarmed
they did not impose any significant
threat let's bring in Richard fol now
professor of international law at
Princeton University and a former un
special repur on Palestinian human
rights he joins us live from Santa
Barbara California thank you for joining
us uh what do you make of this
distressing
video
well it is a vivid
confirmation of continuing Israeli at
atrocities directed at uh innocent and
vulnerable and
unthreatening uh Palestinian
civilians and it's shocking because it's
made
available in conv vincing
evidence uh in real time and that that's
been part of what has been so shocking
throughout this
entire Israeli Onslaught on Gaza that
the eyes and ears of the world have been
assaulted in real time uh by uh this
form of genocidal
behavior and it is a shocking
reality that there has been
no uh adverse reaction from the liberal
democracies in the west it is a
shameful moment in
Western uh
International moral Behavior what do you
think this says about the Israeli
military's approach when it comes to
International standards and
law well it's completely
consistent with
Israeli Defiance of international law
unless it happens to coincide with their
strategic interests which it rarely does
uh during uh this period of prolonged
occupation Israel pursues its
own objectives which are
inconsistent and contradict
International humanitarian law and the
genocide convention and uh numerous
other uh sources of legal Authority it
ref refuses to comply with the interim
order of the international court of
justice it refuses to alter Its Behavior
in response to the recent
ceasefire uh which is a weak resolution
of the security Council nevertheless
it's a legally
binding uh document that uh constitutes
a decision
the violation of which is
itself a criminal act how important do
you think it is that incidents like this
are documented when it comes to any
future
accountability I think it's very
important not only for the formal legal
proceedings that might occur in the
future but to
[Music]
uh a
conflict that should be subject to un
Authority remember that Israel is an
occupying power under special
restrictions by the Geneva
Convention and as such has a primary
obligation to protect the civilian
population that is
occupied and from the beginning from
19 uh
67 Israel has ignored this fundamental
source of legal constraint on its
activity as the occupying power okay
we'll have to leave it there Richard for
we very much appreciate your time thank
you thank you for having me